README.md, before:

---
title: "BioSignal-X: AI-Powered Biomedical Signal Analysis"
tags: ["streamlit", "biosignals", "deep-learning", "explainable-ai", "healthcare"]
license: "mit"
datasets: []
---

# BioSignal-AI

[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20View%20on%20Hugging%20Face%20Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/LogDMax/BioSignal-X) [![CI](https://img.shields.io/badge/CI-pending-lightgrey.svg)](#) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-lightgrey.svg)](#)

*Multimodal dermatology research toolkit for pairing dermoscopy imagery with contextual patient data.*

## Project Overview
- **Title:** BioSignal-X
- **Description:** AI-driven biosignal analysis platform integrating deep learning with biomedical data visualization and explainability (Grad-CAM).
- **Deployed at:** https://huggingface.co/spaces/LogDMax/BioSignal-X
- **Maintainer:** dhananjaysmvdu
- **License:** MIT

## Launch Demo
- Explore the live application on Hugging Face Spaces: https://huggingface.co/spaces/LogDMax/BioSignal-X

## Problem Statement
Dermatology lacks reproducible baselines for combining dermoscopic images with metadata such as demographics, lesion history, and acquisition context. BioSignal-AI aims to deliver a research-grade pipeline that ingests paired inputs, harmonizes modalities, and trains classifiers capable of leveraging both visual and tabular signals for skin lesion risk stratification.

## Datasets
We focus on ISIC Archive releases and HAM10000. Download scripts are provided in `src/data_loader.py`; supply dataset aliases and destinations through its CLI to maintain consistent folder conventions and metadata schemas.

## Quick Start
1. `python -m venv .venv`
2. `.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`
3. `pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. `python src\data_loader.py --dataset ISIC --split sample`
5. `python train.py --epochs 1`

## Streamlit App
`streamlit run app.py`

## Folder Structure
```
BioSignal-AI/
├─ app.py
├─ requirements.txt
├─ src/
│  ├─ data_loader.py
│  ├─ models/
│  └─ utils/
├─ train.py
└─ README.md
```

## How to Contribute
1. Clone with GitHub Desktop for commit history clarity.
2. Create a feature branch named after your issue (e.g., `feature/metadata-parsing`).
3. Commit focused changes, sync, and open a pull request detailing datasets and experiments touched.
4. Request at least one review before merging.

## Ethical Use & Citation
BioSignal-AI is a research prototype only; it is **not** validated for clinical diagnosis, triage, or therapeutic decisions. Always consult board-certified dermatologists when interpreting results. If you publish work derived from this repository, cite the tool as: “BioSignal-AI: Multimodal Skin Lesion Classification Toolkit (2025).” When sharing findings, disclose dataset biases, annotation quality, and any demographic limitations observed during evaluation.

Triggered Hugging Face deployment via Copilot Agent.
✅ Redeployment triggered by Copilot Agent — target Space: LogDMax/BioSignal-X.

Commit message:

Add author credit and acknowledgment section to README.

README.md, after:

---
title: "BioSignal-X: AI-Powered Biomedical Signal Analysis"
tags: ["streamlit", "biosignals", "deep-learning", "explainable-ai", "healthcare"]
license: "mit"
datasets: []
author: "Mrityunjay Dhananjay"
---

# BioSignal-AI

[![Hugging Face Spaces](https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20View%20on%20Hugging%20Face%20Spaces-blue)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/LogDMax/BioSignal-X) [![CI](https://img.shields.io/badge/CI-pending-lightgrey.svg)](#) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-lightgrey.svg)](#)

*Multimodal dermatology research toolkit for pairing dermoscopy imagery with contextual patient data.*

## Project Overview
- **Title:** BioSignal-X
- **Description:** AI-driven biosignal analysis platform integrating deep learning with biomedical data visualization and explainability (Grad-CAM).
- **Deployed at:** https://huggingface.co/spaces/LogDMax/BioSignal-X
- **Maintainer:** dhananjaysmvdu
- **License:** MIT

## Launch Demo
- Explore the live application on Hugging Face Spaces: https://huggingface.co/spaces/LogDMax/BioSignal-X

## Problem Statement
Dermatology lacks reproducible baselines for combining dermoscopic images with metadata such as demographics, lesion history, and acquisition context. BioSignal-AI aims to deliver a research-grade pipeline that ingests paired inputs, harmonizes modalities, and trains classifiers capable of leveraging both visual and tabular signals for skin lesion risk stratification.

## Datasets
We focus on ISIC Archive releases and HAM10000. Download scripts are provided in `src/data_loader.py`; supply dataset aliases and destinations through its CLI to maintain consistent folder conventions and metadata schemas.

## Quick Start
1. `python -m venv .venv`
2. `.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1`
3. `pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. `python src\data_loader.py --dataset ISIC --split sample`
5. `python train.py --epochs 1`

## Streamlit App
`streamlit run app.py`

## Folder Structure
```
BioSignal-AI/
├─ app.py
├─ requirements.txt
├─ src/
│  ├─ data_loader.py
│  ├─ models/
│  └─ utils/
├─ train.py
└─ README.md
```

## How to Contribute
1. Clone with GitHub Desktop for commit history clarity.
2. Create a feature branch named after your issue (e.g., `feature/metadata-parsing`).
3. Commit focused changes, sync, and open a pull request detailing datasets and experiments touched.
4. Request at least one review before merging.

## Ethical Use & Citation
BioSignal-AI is a research prototype only; it is **not** validated for clinical diagnosis, triage, or therapeutic decisions. Always consult board-certified dermatologists when interpreting results. If you publish work derived from this repository, cite the tool as: “BioSignal-AI: Multimodal Skin Lesion Classification Toolkit (2025).” When sharing findings, disclose dataset biases, annotation quality, and any demographic limitations observed during evaluation.

Triggered Hugging Face deployment via Copilot Agent.
✅ Redeployment triggered by Copilot Agent — target Space: LogDMax/BioSignal-X.

## Author & Acknowledgment
**Project Lead & Developer:** Mrityunjay Dhananjay  
B.Sc. (Hons) Biomedical Science, Acharya Narendra Dev College, University of Delhi  

BioSignal-X was conceptualized, developed, and deployed by Mrityunjay Dhananjay.  
The project integrates biomedical AI research, explainable deep learning, and multimodal data visualization through Streamlit and Hugging Face Spaces.  
Special thanks to the open-source community and free research tools that made this project possible.
